So now that we explored ion-label and ion-item, let's dive a bit deeper into ion-item and let's actually
go into our bookings page where we don't have any bookings yet, we'll change that
and our offers page where we do have offers which right now are simply all the places we also have on
this page
and I want to make sure that we can actually slide these items,
so not just tap them as we currently can do it but slide them from right to left for example, so that
we can edit one of these offers or in the case of the bookings, actually cancel a booking. Now for that,
let's start with the offers since we already have these in place and therefore the place to go obviously
is our offers page and there, I am going through all the places as I mentioned at the moment, we'll later
change that to differentiate a bit between offers and places
but for now, it's simply just the places being output there
but on the offers page, I want to make sure we can swipe these items to delete them. To achieve this, Ionic
gives us certain components we can use inside of a list and especially in combination with an ion-item
and as you know, the official component docs are always a great place and there under item, indeed
you don't only find ion-item, you also find ion-item-group, divider and ion-item-sliding, options,
option. These three here, sliding, options and option are related to making these items swipeable so that
we can expose extra options to use or we can choose from, like editing or deleting. Divider and group
just as you also have ion-list-header here are components you can use to split your list into multiple
sections. I'll not use this feature here but explore that feature in the official docs if you need that,
for example if you are having a list of persons and you want to group them by starting character of
their surname, well then you can use ion-item-group, back to the sliding thing which I want to use. For
that, you can wrap your ion-item here with ion-item-sliding and therefore you see inside of ion-list,
I'm now actually not using an ion-item but ion-item-sliding but technically, that is related to the
ion-item because this ion-item-sliding component now wraps your ion-item component, so you just copy
that into ion-item-sliding. This extra wrapper makes this item slideable but you also need to configure
which options should be exposed when these slides open and for this, you add next to the ion-item, not inside
of it but inside of the ion-item-sliding, you add ion-item-options, like this. In there, you then add
ion-item-option elements, so inside ion-item-options, you have ion-item-option and these are just the
components you also find here in the official docs and there, you now configure the different options
you want to show. Now on such an option, you can for example set a color which will be the background
color of that button which gets exposed, for example secondary. You can then also register a click listener
to define what should happen when this button gets pressed, for example here since I want to allow editing
and offer, I'll trigger onEdit and I will forward my ID of that offer we're currently looking at,
so here I'll forward offer.id. Inside of ion-item-option, you then can specify some text, for example
edit. Now let me also add the onEdit method here, onEdit and here I get my offerId which will
be a string and for now, I'll just console log editing item and I also want to output that offerId
I'm logging here.
So with all that, we can save that and
let's go back to our application and now under discover places offers here, we can swipe that and you
see, this is the secondary color we configured in this application.
Now what you'll also see is that only the first item is swipeable though, no other item,
so what's wrong here? Well the problem is that ngFor is placed on the ion-item which is wrapped
by the ion-item-sliding, so in the end we repeat ion-item in this one sliding wrapper.
We should instead repeat that ion-item-sliding element which wraps a single ion-item,
so that we create multiple slideable items for all the offers we have. With this change, you'll now see
that once this reloads, we can swipe all these items and then we also see that added text there. So that
is nice and if I now click edit, you see now I don't go to that place but instead now in the console
of the developer tools, you'll see editing item and then the ID of that item you edited,
so here we go. You can also show an icon
and for this you can add ion-icon
here, then choose a name like for example create gives us a nice pen icon and you can define a
slot here, for example top should actually render this icon here on top of the text.
Now I will set it at the point of time where I record this, this is a bit broken and therefore it actually
shows next to this instead of on top of this
but eventually, this should get fixed
and here in this application it's not a huge issue because I don't want to show a text anyways and I
can then simply change the slot here to
icon only and now in that ion-item here, we should only have this pen icon now,
here it is.
So now we can choose that and we can of course not just console log something here but we can now forward
the user to our edit offer page and for that, we could add a router link on this page
but there is a little behavior which at least at the moment requires us to use a click listener where
we can execute more than just the navigation option.
Now why is that?
Well let's remove that click listener temporarily and let's instead use a router link bound to a dynamic
value here where we go to slash and then it's places tabs offers and then we need edit
and then the ID
and why do we need this?
Because if we have a look at place routing, we see we got tabs,
then the offers area and then edit slash the ID and that is the place where I want to go.
So the ID here will be offer.id.
Now with that, we have a valid router link and we should actually be able to go to that offer edit page.
So if I just swipe this, now
first of all you see that here is a bit buggy,
it now renders an anchor tag and that destroys
the look here, the CSS code. Now this will probably get fixed but if you go there and you go back, you also
see this is still open,
it doesn't close automatically. If all of that works just fine for you,
you can of course use that. If it doesn't as it does for me,
the solution is to stay at this click listener and all we now need to do is we need to pass a reference
to our ion-item-sliding
and for this, you can add a local reference with a hashtag here,
this is an Angular feature,
give this any name you want, for example sliding item but the name is totally up to you and then you pass
sliding item here as a second argument to onEdit, just like this without the hashtag. And in your offers
page where you have the onEdit method, you then get this sliding item here as a second argument,
it is of type ion-item-sliding and this ion-item-sliding type needs to be imported from
@ionic/angular,
so this import here needs to be added in the offers.page.ts file and you can then execute on
sliding item, so on this second argument you're getting, the close method
and this will close it right before you then navigate and navigation can now be done programmatically.
Therefore a button will get rendered and not an anchor tag and therefore, the styling will be fixed
and thanks to sliding item close, it will also close so that when we navigate back, it is closed.
So let's now inject the Angular router here with the addition to the constructor and then the addition
of the import here at the top of the file
and then here, we can simply say this router navigate and of course here, I want to go to /places,
tabs, offers, edit
and then here, my offerId.
And with all of that, if we save this again, now we'll have a list
where this is swipeable, where it looks good and where when I tap this, I get forwarded and that
sliding item closes so that when I go back, it is closed and it stays closed and that of course is behavior
I want here.
So this is how you can add slideable items, as always
don't hesitate to dive into the official docs,
there you can learn more about these components as always
and for example, you can learn how to change the direction from where you can swipe.
The default is from right to left,
now you can always go to your, as can see here also,
you can always go to your ion-item-options surrounding block here and then change the side. And the side
by default is end,
if you set it to start, you can swipe from left to right, like this.
Now by the way, you can also have multiple ion-item-options per sliding item,
so next to this set of ion-item-options, we could add another set of ion-item-options which would then
have to go onto the other side so that we can actually swipe in both directions and expose different
options.
So that is all supported, setting this to side end is optional because it is the default and the official
docs allow you to dive way deeper into all of that.